# Incident: 2025-04-08 11-19-50

## Summary

Between the hours of 11:19:50 and 12:10:50 on 2025-04-08 Users encountered an error where pizza orders from the JWT Pizza application were failing. 

The event was detected by the on-call monitoring system, and forwarded to the JWT Pizza Dev-Ops team. The team found the cause and resolved the problem approximately an hour later. 

## Detection

The alert response was triggered internally at 11:19:50 and sent through the escalation chain. The event was detected when pizza-failures exceeded the acceptable threshold of .05 failures per minute. The incident was acknowledged immediately through the Grafana IRM app. 

## Impact

For 00hrs 50 minutes between 11:19:50 and 12:10:50 all pizza orders on the JWT pizza application failed. Logs indicate that 371 pizza order requests occured during that time, resulting in a lost revenue of BTC 18.55. or USD 1.4 Million. 

## Timeline

- 2025-04-08 11:14:11 - First JWT Pizza Order failed {\"message\":\"Failed to fulfill order at factory\",\"reportPizzaCreationErrorToPizzaFactoryUrl\":\"https://cs329.cs.byu.edu/api/report?apiKey=34bcaa632d2e4b228f60bebb7b7fe65e&fixCode=4795f7a9b18e472e9d3b87ff21c49e97\"}"
- 2025-04-08 11:19:50 - Pizza Order Alert sent to pending
- 2025-04-08 11:20:50 - Pizza Order Alert fired
- 2025-04-08 11:21:50 - Triggered step "Notify-on-call from Schedule JWT Pizza"
- 2025-04-08 11:21:50 - Sent mobile push message to ianjrobertson
- 2025-04-08 11:26:50 - Triggered step "Notify-on-call from Schedule JWT Pizza (Important)"
- 2025-04-08 11:26:50 - Sent mobile push message to ianjrobertson
- 2025-04-08 11:30:50 - Acknowledged by ianjrobertson
- 2025-04-08 12:07:50 - Pizza Order Alert resolved

## Response

After recieving an escalated alert at 11:26:50 ianjrobertson acknowledged the alert through Grafana IRM app. At 12:07:50, ianjrobertson found the symptom of the alert to be pizza order failures, and the pizza failure metric was reporting complete pizza failures. Ianjrobertson inspected the jwt-pizza logs and determined Pizza Orders were resulting in 500 server Errors. 

The lag for acknowledment to resolution was caused because ianjrobertson was hanging out at his girlfriends apartment at the time of the alart. Ianjrobertson left his computer at his office on campus to generate traffice and was away from his computer at the time of the alert. 

Upon inspecting the 500 message, each error contained a link to the jwtpizzafactory url. Ianjrobertson entered the link in the browser, and recieved a message indicating the chaos was resolved. 

## Root cause

The root cause of the incident was chaos enabled by the JWT Pizza factory. The chaos caused every JWT pizza order sent to the factory to fail. 

## Resolution

The incident was resolved when ianjrobertson hit the the error response message provided endpoint which ended the chaos being created by the JWT Pizza factory API. 

The incident was effectively detected through the Grafana IRM alert system and was escalated to a push-request which was quickly acknowledged. Resolution speed could be improved by having a closer proximity to laptop. 

## Prevention

There are no other events with the same root cause. 

## Action items

1. Build independent JWT Pizza factory to remove coupling
2. Add additional metric alerts to pizza revenue
3. Add logging alerts for 500 server errors. 
